Hey so it's time for you to build and
share your levels now! We can't wait to see what you make, in
the discussions. See if you can be the first person to get
it there, or if there are already lots of games there, see if you can beat what's
already there. So, in this lecture we're going to revise
your game window. We're going to tell you how to tweak your
sound levels. We're going to do a little test web build.
We're going to revise building and sharing to the web, and the, we'll look
forward to seeing what you make. So firstly, how do we change
the relative sound levels? Well, here are your three places.
Number one, the Master Volume, you can change at: Edit > Project Setting >
Audio. Let's take a little sneak
peak at that, shall we! Edit, Project Settings, Audio.
There you go!
And here you have Volume. I've got mine set down to 0.25,
you might like yours at... You probably want to start at 1,
to be honest, so maybe you want that as 1, and then, only turn it down
if you have a specific reason to. So,
1 is fine, and then, you can see that, that just makes everything
loud or quiet. Cool! So, that's the first thing.
And then, so what's the next thing that we can
change? Well, the "Boing" sound needs
to be changed on the Ball Prefab, on the AudioSource.
Let's take a look at that! Ball Prefab, Audio
Source, and then,
here Volume. OK, so I'll leave my Boing as say
at 0.51. So, you've got a Master Volume,
no particular reason for you to turn that down, I don't think, unless you want to a
quiet game. You've got the volume of the Boing here.
You've also, and I haven't put it on the slide, but you've
also got the sound of the
Music Player, and that again, you go Music Player,
which is the instance here. And then, Volume and that's
at 0.25, that's the same technique,
and then, the final thing you're going to want to be able to change is possibly
the volume of the "Crack" sound.
Now, if you click on this reference to the AudioSource
PlayClipAtPoint source, you'll find that
we have another parameter we're not using, which is the Volume.
So, the way you would change the Crack is, you would come into Brick.cs
and here you would say play Crack, at this
position and say 0.8f);
float. And then, when you build, when you run the game,
you'll find that all those things, the Music
Volume, the Crack Volume,
and the Boing Volume, you can customize. So,
please consider making your own sounds. Just simply make
your own .mp3's or .ogg's or
whatever you like, and stick it in here and
replace these sounds. Make sure they're not 3D when you bring them
in, otherwise they may be very quiet and unpredictable.
And then, we really want your to make your own scenes now. Just
lots of scenes with lots of nice, different background images, and crucially,
lots of different block layouts. I suggest as the levels
go on, you make them harder and that you introduce
new block types. You may want Level 1 to just have yellow.
Level 2 maybe has two types, three,
you know three types, however you like!
I've done it slightly differently to that. Get creative!
Get making some cool stuff right now! You know, play with
how transparent the background image is. So, my background here
is probably too...
...probably too alpha, I can't really see it at all. So, I could bring it up,
make it a bit more pleasant. Just tweak, play,
enjoy! Alright, so the next thing I want to do is remind
you that when you're testing inside Unity,
this Game Window here, you want to set it to
800 by 600, if that's going to be our target build.
Now, when it says, using resolution that, that means that
currently this thing is too small for it to show the full resolution. So, you could
detach your Game Window, and it can be tricky to detach
it, you have to fiddle around until it snaps out. I'm having real trouble
now. Oh, there it is! OK, and then you could,
at that point, make it bigger than 800 by 600,
and so it stops moaning. There you go! And then, this is a great
place! By the way, there's a nice keyboard shortcut, Command or Control P,
to start playing. And this is a much better place to test
your game, so this will give you a very good idea about
the sounds and the look the your game and the playability.
Then, what you're going to want to do is actually
build this for the web, and do a test build to start with.
So, go to Build Settings.
You want to make sure all your scenes are in here, starting at Start
and going through the levels in order, then, Win then Lose.
Then, you want to go to Web Player Settings, and I'm going to
make 800 by 600 my target revolution. [Laughs]
Resolution, revolution. [Laughs at Fumbleing Words] I'm going to go for a black
background, I think and that's it! So,
800 by 600, black background. I'm
going for and I'm going to Build And Run now.
Now, it's going to say, where do you want me to put that? Downloads is OK.
It's going to compile the scripts
build. Hopefully you get no errors at this point. If you do get errors,
at this point, try and work out the error
yourself and then, if you're not sure ask in the discussions.
Then, you'll end up with a web build running in your browser, like this! You may have
to allow your plugin to run.
This is the real test of whether it's going to run in the browser properly.
[Music & Sound Effects Playing in Background]
So, is it running properly? Well it is, but my
screen is too small, because I'm broadcasting
to you and 720 pixels. It's a little bit to small to be able to
see what's going on. So, if I was
to go full screen on this, then we should be OK.
View, Enter Full Screen.
It may just be OK. Actually, I'm not
sure. Yeah, I've just got 600 pixels left, with all these Menu Bars.
I think I could...
I could probably get rid of my bookmark bar
and that would help a little bit. There you go!
[Sound Effects Play] And the web build seems to be working.
So, once you're happy with your web build, like that, go back
into Unity,
and well, if the build you just did
to the File System was OK, you are good to go. Even
if it was called test. So, I would probably save everything in Unity,
so you can even quit Unity at this stage
and you can quite MonoDevelop. Everything will be saved,
and then, you need to go and find that thing, that Test
Folder, in my case. So, now is a good time to
rename your folder, because when you share with GameBuck.io
it'll be this folder name that it uses in the URL.
So, I'm going to call it Block Breaker. You can call yours
whatever you like. So, there you go! My folder is called Block
Breaker, and inside, it doesn't really matter what the files are inside.
In this case, they're test.html. And test.unity
because that's the name we give it, when we export it. That's all just fine!
So, what you do, as before very quickly, is we just compress
the whole folder. Go to www.gamebucket.io,
Upload the folder.
You'll see that the URL, when it comes back,
contains the name of the folder.
It's going to take a little while to upload, because it's a bigger
game. Here you go, the Block Breaker. The percent 20, as a
space, is there in the URL. Now as before, remember
test properly in incognito,
Private Window Mode. Here you go! Make sure
that it's nothing to do with you being logged into anything. Make
sure it works, make sure it fits. All the sound balances OK.
Then, you've got your URL, copy that URL.
I suggest you keep the browser open, because we don't want to lose it.
And as before, go into the discussions
in Udemy and
share your game, on the discussions and on
Facebook. So, in this video we've covered
revising setting your game window, so that you can preview
the effect of your resolution. We've tweaked the sound levels,
in various different places. We did a test web build
and played it locally. We revised building and sharing to
the web, using www.gamebucket.io and that's it!
We really really look forward to seeing your levels. Change the music,
change the sound, put some instructions on, build lots of new
levels, and share share share! See you soon!